for more on the president's actions in
the face of this crisis I wanna bring in
democratic congressman max Rose of New
York and Congressman obviously New York
has been hit particularly hard by this
and and I personally know a lot of folks
who have been hit by this in the city
I'm sure many your constituents have it
does seem to me that this what what your
colleague Alexandra Acosta Cortez and
and Chuck Schumer have called for this
just seems like a very obvious and
simple thing the government should be
doing here yeah you're absolutely right
look FEMA and it's not often
acknowledged is an incredibly flexible
vehicle by which the federal government
can reimburse States to execute and
address a whole host of things that
happens in a natural disaster about a
month ago I wrote a letter to FEMA
calling on them to basically follow up
on these requests for individual
assistance FEMA can also reimburse for
unemployment assistance FEMA can
reimburse for housing and certainly FEMA
can reimburse for funeral cost so this
begs the question why why aren't they
doing it I mean they didn't even respond
to my letter so why aren't they doing it
one can only imagine that they're not
doing it because they don't know what
the costs will be they're worried about
managerial expenses or this or that will
they come back to us tell Congress what
you need because I am certain at least I
hope that they are not okay with new
yorkers or any other Americans dying in
dying and then being left in the street
they can't be okay with this so tell us
what you need and I promise you we will
give it to you and if we don't then you
will see me very loudly turning on
Democrats or Republicans that won't fund
you accordingly you and I have spoken
before about your experience in in
Afghanistan when you served in the Armed
Forces and and and about experience with
with loss in that context and I just
curious your thoughts I mean it strikes
me right now that there is a kind of
absence from the from from the top
particularly of any expression of
collective grief collective mourning
collective Honor frankly for people and
and compassion and empathy for people
that have struggled through this at this
moment when we are facing this it really
is essentially unprecedented situation
look we need moral leadership right
right now we need the president United
States to be not only the commander in
chief but the United chef and someone
who we can see Express the incredible
grief that we are all feeling there is
not one New Yorker who has in in some
way shape or form experienced this
crisis in truly and utterly tragic ways
and beyond that and this is one of the
evils of this crisis we are forced to
grieve within the confines of our own
home we can't even go through the normal
traditions associated with losing a
loved one and especially right now we
need our leader to actually say
something about that we need the
president to say something about that
that is in my mind just as important as
allocating these resources that we just
referred to I want to ask you about a
scene that played out today not in New
York in the state of Michigan not
dissimilar from scenes we've seen in
other state capitals relatively again a
relatively small group of people quite
unrepresentative of national political
and public opinion given all the polling
we've seen and quite marginal but but
but a striking scene this was these were
protesters in michigan which it is their
american right of course to freely
assemble but armed armed to the teeth
you know sometimes banging on doors
yelling at guards inside the michigan
state house obviously not physically
distancing at all you know what what do
you make of protests with weapons like
that in an american state house those
are scary images I say that as someone
who spends a good portion of my time in
Congress considering this issue of
domestic
to terrorism and the rise of a far-right
organized movement that is actually
global in nature often connected to
people who have significant military
training and weapons training and who
are equipped accordingly but we have to
note this okay we are seeing numbers
right now in New York that are starting
slowly not fast enough slowly to go down
and that is not that wasn't inevitable
okay it's not like the projections were
wrong no we changed the reality of the
projections and we did that by all of us
banding together and changing our social
behavior and we're not out of the woods
yet we will although there will continue
to be a deep interdependence to this
crisis so of course we have to note the
economic pain that people are going to
it would be naive and even cold to just
disregard that but with that being said
though we can't just forget about the
reality of this virus which is that if
we disregard the advice of medical
professionals then we will go right back
to where we were seeing an ungodly surge
of new positive cases and death I'm
curious actually what you're
interestingly situated here but both
politically geographically I mean you
represent part Staten Island parts of
Brooklyn you you're in a district that
was previously held by a Republican it's
a district that voted for Trump in 2016
I am curious to hear what are your what
are your constituents think about all
this there these are not this is not a
liberal district necessarily at all it's
also a district that is seeing firsthand
the effects of this what do you hear
from the folks that you represent look
it's not a liberal district it's not a
conservative district it's a patriotic
district and what I hear from people in
my community is very simple this is not
the time to play games this is not the
time to be unnecessarily this divisive
this is a time when we have to assume an
attitude that one would assume during
total war which is to address the threat
at hand
utilize all the resources that we have
to save people's lives because people's
lives are absolutely on the line now
that doesn't mean that you don't hold
people accountable that doesn't mean
that you don't exercise oversight that's
my job and that certainly doesn't mean
that you call that you don't call
someone out when they tell New Yorkers
to drop dead as mitch mcconnell and now
his lackey rick scott recently had i
have no problem and they have no problem
openly saying that that is wrong it's
ignorant
it's naive it's cold and it's
economically stupid but what they do not
want to see is anyone getting in the way
of us saving lives getting in the way of
putting people back safely to work
that's what they deserve no congressman
max rose thank you so much for making
some time tonight thanks again